README.md, before:

# A Tour of Life (Pyrad Notes!)

## Description
This is a notebook for Pyrad. 

It's old name is *Pyrad's Notes*, and it was originally created on **Gitee**, and all kinds of useful notes are kept down here to remind me of something interesting. Yes, all kinds.

I changed the name to **A Tour of Life** from **Pyrad Notes!**, as I think it's the time to find a place keep down all things over my mind, and to find a way to track my life. Perhaps good, perhaps bad.

All notes are organized by Sphinx + markdown texts, and the web pages are built with help of **ReadTheDocs**.

May 17, 2022 22:28

## Quick Usage

- Download the repository files (or just clone it to local)
- Use command `make html` to build
- Open the file `.\build\html\index.html` to view notes

## References

Here are some useful links, relating to **Sphinx**, **reStructuredText**, **ReadTheDocs** and so on.

- [Sphinx使用手册](https://zh-sphinx-doc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) （[其目录](https://zh-sphinx-doc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contents.html)）
- [Sphinx Docs](http://www.sphinxsearch.com/docs/)
- [reStructuredText(rst)快速入门语法说明](https://www.jianshu.com/p/1885d5570b37)
- [*Read the Docs* Tutorial](https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorial/)

Commit message:

Add a GIF file to show how to make html
Added a GIF, it shows 3 steps usually used
1. make clean
2. make html
3. .\build\html\index.html

README.md, after:

# A Tour of Life (Pyrad Notes!)

## Description
This is a notebook for Pyrad. 

It's old name is *Pyrad's Notes*, and it was originally created on **Gitee**, and all kinds of useful notes are kept down here to remind me of something interesting. Yes, all kinds.

I changed the name to **A Tour of Life** from **Pyrad Notes!**, as I think it's the time to find a place keep down all things over my mind, and to find a way to track my life. Perhaps good, perhaps bad.

All notes are organized by Sphinx + markdown texts, and the web pages are built with help of **ReadTheDocs**.

May 17, 2022 22:28

## Quick Usage

- Download the repository files (or just clone it to local)

- Use command `make html` to build

- Open the file `.\build\html\index.html` to view notes

- Refer to a GIF file in `_static` folder to have a quick look

  ![](./source/_static/HowToBuildNotes.gif)

## References

Here are some useful links, relating to **Sphinx**, **reStructuredText**, **ReadTheDocs** and so on.

- [Sphinx使用手册](https://zh-sphinx-doc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) （[其目录](https://zh-sphinx-doc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contents.html)）
- [Sphinx Docs](http://www.sphinxsearch.com/docs/)
- [reStructuredText(rst)快速入门语法说明](https://www.jianshu.com/p/1885d5570b37)
- [*Read the Docs* Tutorial](https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorial/)
