source/Notes/Games.md, before:

# Games

## Heroes of Might and Magic III

[英雄无敌3各种版本网盘下载 - 哔哩哔哩 (bilibili.com)](https://www.bilibili.com/read/cv9473168/)

Link: [Heroes of Might and Magic III](https://strategywiki.org/wiki/Heroes_of_Might_and_Magic_III:_The_Shadow_of_Death)

Walkthrough: [Heroes of Might and Magic III: New Beginning](https://strategywiki.org/wiki/Heroes_of_Might_and_Magic_III:_The_Shadow_of_Death/New_Beginning)

### New Beginning

1. Clearing the Border

2. After the Amulet

3. Retrieving the Cowl

4. Driving for the Boots

### Elixir of Life

1. Graduation Exercise

2. Cutthroats

3. Valley of the Dragon Lords

4. A Thief in the Night

### Hack and Slash

1. Bashing Skulls

2. Black Sheep

3. A Cage in the Hand

4. Grave Robber

### Birth of a Barbarian

1. On the Run

2. The Meeting

3. A Tough Start

4. Falor and Terwen

5. Returning to Bracada

### Rise of the Necromancer

1. Target

2. Master

3. Finneas Vilmar

4. Duke Alarice

### Unholy Alliance

1. Harvest

2. Gathering the Legion

3. Search for a Killer

4. Final Peace



## Heroes of Might and Magic IV

### 人族 The true blade 真实之剑/真刃

1. The drawing of the blade 没落之剑
2. The Trials 考验
3. The first step of many 第一步
4. Seeking the steel 寻找钢铁
5. The rightful heir天命之子

### 野蛮族 Glory of days past 光辉岁月
1. A new way 新道路
2. A necessary war 必要的战斗
3. The king’s choice 国王的选择
4. The tribe 群落

### 自然族 Elwin and shaera 艾尔文和莎拉
1. the lover 情人
2. Mark of the tiger 虎之印记
3. Ture love 真爱
4. Reflections 责难
5. Together 同心协力

### 混乱族 The pirate’s daughter 海盗的女儿
1. The pirate’s daughter 海盗的女儿
2. Blood cove 血色海湾
3. The strait of the lost 失落的海峡
4. Bay of maids 少女的海湾
5. Never look back不要往回看

### 鬼族 half-dead 半生者
1. Eater of children食童者
2. The fiery realm 狂热的领土
3. The point of power 力量之塔
4. Life and death 生与死
5. The unholy breath 不洁的气息

### 守序族 The price of peace 和平的代价
1. At the crossroade 旅程
2. An enemy’s trust 敌人的信任
3. Servant 仆人
4. The rainbow crystal 彩虹水晶
5. A unusual betrayal 不同寻常的背叛
6. Slave to fear 奴隶的恐惧
7. To slay an immortal 屠杀大英雄
8. The price of peace 和平的代价

Commit message:

Note A link to HoMM4 overview

source/Notes/Games.md, after:

# Games

## Heroes of Might and Magic III

[英雄无敌3各种版本网盘下载 - 哔哩哔哩 (bilibili.com)](https://www.bilibili.com/read/cv9473168/)

Link: [Heroes of Might and Magic III](https://strategywiki.org/wiki/Heroes_of_Might_and_Magic_III:_The_Shadow_of_Death)

Walkthrough: [Heroes of Might and Magic III: New Beginning](https://strategywiki.org/wiki/Heroes_of_Might_and_Magic_III:_The_Shadow_of_Death/New_Beginning)

### New Beginning

1. Clearing the Border

2. After the Amulet

3. Retrieving the Cowl

4. Driving for the Boots

### Elixir of Life

1. Graduation Exercise

2. Cutthroats

3. Valley of the Dragon Lords

4. A Thief in the Night

### Hack and Slash

1. Bashing Skulls

2. Black Sheep

3. A Cage in the Hand

4. Grave Robber

### Birth of a Barbarian

1. On the Run

2. The Meeting

3. A Tough Start

4. Falor and Terwen

5. Returning to Bracada

### Rise of the Necromancer

1. Target

2. Master

3. Finneas Vilmar

4. Duke Alarice

### Unholy Alliance

1. Harvest

2. Gathering the Legion

3. Search for a Killer

4. Final Peace



## Heroes of Might and Magic IV

### Heroes of Might and Magic IV Overview

[Heroes of Might and Magic IV Overview](http://www.heroesofmightandmagic.com/heroes4/heroesofmightandmagic4iv.shtml)

### 人族 The true blade 真实之剑/真刃

1. The drawing of the blade 没落之剑
2. The Trials 考验
3. The first step of many 第一步
4. Seeking the steel 寻找钢铁
5. The rightful heir天命之子

### 野蛮族 Glory of days past 光辉岁月
1. A new way 新道路
2. A necessary war 必要的战斗
3. The king’s choice 国王的选择
4. The tribe 群落

### 自然族 Elwin and shaera 艾尔文和莎拉
1. the lover 情人
2. Mark of the tiger 虎之印记
3. Ture love 真爱
4. Reflections 责难
5. Together 同心协力

### 混乱族 The pirate’s daughter 海盗的女儿
1. The pirate’s daughter 海盗的女儿
2. Blood cove 血色海湾
3. The strait of the lost 失落的海峡
4. Bay of maids 少女的海湾
5. Never look back不要往回看

### 鬼族 half-dead 半生者
1. Eater of children食童者
2. The fiery realm 狂热的领土
3. The point of power 力量之塔
4. Life and death 生与死
5. The unholy breath 不洁的气息

### 守序族 The price of peace 和平的代价
1. At the crossroade 旅程
2. An enemy’s trust 敌人的信任
3. Servant 仆人
4. The rainbow crystal 彩虹水晶
5. A unusual betrayal 不同寻常的背叛
6. Slave to fear 奴隶的恐惧
7. To slay an immortal 屠杀大英雄
8. The price of peace 和平的代价
