source/English/vocabulary.rst, before:

Vocabulary  (reStructuredtext)
======================================


.. list-table:: Vocabulary Table
    :widths: 20 20 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Word
      - Pronunciation
      - Meaning
    * - **amortized** 
      - / əˈmɔːtaɪzd /
      - *n.* 摊销额 *vt.* 摊销（amortize的过去分词）
    * - **annihilate**
      - / əˈnaɪəleɪt /
      - *vt.* 歼灭；战胜；废止 *vi.* 湮灭；湮没
    * - **syntactic**
      - / sɪnˈtæktɪk /
      - *adj.* 句法的；语法的；依据造句法的
    * - **monotonic**
      - / ˌmɑnəˈtɑnɪk /
      - *adj.* 单调的；无变化的；产生单音调的
    * - **off-by-one error**
      - *N/A*
      - 差一错误；缺位错误；离一误差
    * - **spin off**
      - *N/A*
      - 副产品；创造新的事物而不影响原物的大小（稳定性）；甩掉
    * - **trigonometry**
      - / ˌtrɪɡəˈnɒmətri /
      - 三角学（复数trigonometries）
    * - **the logarithm of 3 to base 2**
      - *N/A*
      - 以2为底的3的对数
    * - **contrived**
      - / kənˈtraɪvd /
      - *adj.* 人为的；做作的；不自然的（contrive过去分词）
    * - **frustum**
      - / ˈfrʌstəm /
      - *n.* [数] 截头锥体；平截头体
    * - **cone**
      - / koʊn /
      - *n.* 圆锥体；圆锥形物；锥形路标
    * - **facelift**
      - /ˈfeɪslɪft/
      - *n.* 整容手术（除去面部皱纹）
    * - **consummate**
      - /ˈkɑːnsəmət/
      - *adj.* 至上的；完美的；圆满的
    * - **lucid**
      - /ˈluːsɪd/
      - *adj.* 明晰的，易懂的；头脑清楚的，思路清晰的；
    * - **eminently**
      - /ˈemɪnəntli/
      - *adv.* 非常，特别，极其（含褒义）；突出地；显著地
    * - **vetting**
      - /ˈvetɪŋ/
      - *n.* 审查，审核
    * - **blatant**
      - /ˈbleɪt(ə)nt/
      - *adj.* 喧嚣的；公然的；炫耀的；俗丽的
    * - **fiddle**
      - /ˈfɪdl/
      - *v.* （尤指厌烦或紧张地）不停摆弄；
    * - **demise**
      - /dɪˈmaɪz/
      - *n.* 倒闭，败落；死亡，逝世；（律）（财产或所有权的）转让，遗赠
    * - **preamble**
      - /ˈpriːæmb(ə)l/
      - *n.* （法规、契约的）序言，绪论；前言，开场白
    * - **blow-by-blow**
      - /ˈbləu-bai-bləu/
      - *adj.* 详尽的；逐一记录的
    * - **pagination**
      - /ˌpædʒɪˈneɪʃ(ə)n/
      - n. 标记页数；页码
    * - **egregious**
      - /ɪˈɡriːdʒiəs/
      - *adj.* 惊人的；过分的；恶名昭彰的
    * - **outskirts**
      - /ˈaʊtskɜːts/
      - *n.* 市郊，郊区（outskirt的复数形式）
    * - **outhouse**
      - /ˈaʊthaʊs/
      - *n.* 屋外厕所；附属建筑物；外屋
    * - **tap water**
      - n/a
      - *n.* 自来水
    * - **endure hardship**
      - n/a
      - *n.* 忍受困难
    * - **unfazed**
      - /ʌnˈfeɪzd/
      - *adj.* 不苦恼的
    * - **contagion**
      - /kənˈteɪdʒən/
      - *n.* 传染病；传播; 蔓延; 扩散
    * - **asylum**
      - /əˈsaɪləm/
      - *n.* 政治避难，政治庇护；<旧>精神病院
    * - **nifty**
      - /ˈnɪfti/
      - *adj.* 俏皮的；漂亮的 *n.* 俏皮话
    * - **ventune off into**
      - N/A
      - 冒险进入
    * - **hush money**
      - [ˈhʌʃ mʌni]
      - *n.* 封嘴钱(用于防止某人透露令人尴尬或有损害的消息);
    * - **mounting tension**
      - [ˈmaʊntɪŋ ˈtenʃn]
      - *n.* 日益增加的紧张氛围
    * - **RSVP**
      - n/a
      - 敬请回复
    * - **A hell of a job/time/...**
      - n/a
      - Very difficult or bad
    * - **intermezzo**
      - /ˌɪntəˈmetsəʊ/
      - *n.* 间奏曲；插曲；幕间剧；芭蕾舞表演atheist
    * - **atheist**
      - /ˈeɪθiɪst/
      - *n.* 无神论者
    * - **Unices**
      - n/a
      - *n.* Plural of Unix
    * - **ASCII**
      - Read as 'ask ee'
      - *n.* America Standard Code for Information Interchange




I have a bridge to sell you（表示相信一个人是非常容易被欺骗）

Used to indicate that one believes someone is especially gullible. A reference to the con man George C. Parker, best known for "selling" property that he did not own, most famously the Brooklyn Bridge.

  If you believe that, I have a bridge in Brooklyn to sell to you

policy stance on US 对美国的zz立场


[It's not all sunshine and roses](https://grammarhow.com/its-not-all-sunshine-and-roses-idiom-meaning/)

表示事情不像表明看上去那么完美，还是有缺陷和不足

The idiom “It’s not all sunshine and roses” is used to convey the idea that a seemingly good or positive situation isn’t entirely so,
and that it has its own drawbacks or negative factors as well.
It can be used to talk about many different seemingly positive situations.


ventune off into

  Here are a few details to keep in mind as you venture off into this brave new world.


倒数第二

  last but one, next to last, penultimate



be there or be square
go big or go home
talk the talk
walk the walk
forgive and forget
put up or shut up

Commit message:

English Meaning of 'Floor is yours'

source/English/vocabulary.rst, after:

Vocabulary  (reStructuredtext)
======================================


.. list-table:: Vocabulary Table
    :widths: 20 20 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Word
      - Pronunciation
      - Meaning
    * - **amortized** 
      - / əˈmɔːtaɪzd /
      - *n.* 摊销额 *vt.* 摊销（amortize的过去分词）
    * - **annihilate**
      - / əˈnaɪəleɪt /
      - *vt.* 歼灭；战胜；废止 *vi.* 湮灭；湮没
    * - **syntactic**
      - / sɪnˈtæktɪk /
      - *adj.* 句法的；语法的；依据造句法的
    * - **monotonic**
      - / ˌmɑnəˈtɑnɪk /
      - *adj.* 单调的；无变化的；产生单音调的
    * - **off-by-one error**
      - *N/A*
      - 差一错误；缺位错误；离一误差
    * - **spin off**
      - *N/A*
      - 副产品；创造新的事物而不影响原物的大小（稳定性）；甩掉
    * - **trigonometry**
      - / ˌtrɪɡəˈnɒmətri /
      - 三角学（复数trigonometries）
    * - **the logarithm of 3 to base 2**
      - *N/A*
      - 以2为底的3的对数
    * - **contrived**
      - / kənˈtraɪvd /
      - *adj.* 人为的；做作的；不自然的（contrive过去分词）
    * - **frustum**
      - / ˈfrʌstəm /
      - *n.* [数] 截头锥体；平截头体
    * - **cone**
      - / koʊn /
      - *n.* 圆锥体；圆锥形物；锥形路标
    * - **facelift**
      - /ˈfeɪslɪft/
      - *n.* 整容手术（除去面部皱纹）
    * - **consummate**
      - /ˈkɑːnsəmət/
      - *adj.* 至上的；完美的；圆满的
    * - **lucid**
      - /ˈluːsɪd/
      - *adj.* 明晰的，易懂的；头脑清楚的，思路清晰的；
    * - **eminently**
      - /ˈemɪnəntli/
      - *adv.* 非常，特别，极其（含褒义）；突出地；显著地
    * - **vetting**
      - /ˈvetɪŋ/
      - *n.* 审查，审核
    * - **blatant**
      - /ˈbleɪt(ə)nt/
      - *adj.* 喧嚣的；公然的；炫耀的；俗丽的
    * - **fiddle**
      - /ˈfɪdl/
      - *v.* （尤指厌烦或紧张地）不停摆弄；
    * - **demise**
      - /dɪˈmaɪz/
      - *n.* 倒闭，败落；死亡，逝世；（律）（财产或所有权的）转让，遗赠
    * - **preamble**
      - /ˈpriːæmb(ə)l/
      - *n.* （法规、契约的）序言，绪论；前言，开场白
    * - **blow-by-blow**
      - /ˈbləu-bai-bləu/
      - *adj.* 详尽的；逐一记录的
    * - **pagination**
      - /ˌpædʒɪˈneɪʃ(ə)n/
      - n. 标记页数；页码
    * - **egregious**
      - /ɪˈɡriːdʒiəs/
      - *adj.* 惊人的；过分的；恶名昭彰的
    * - **outskirts**
      - /ˈaʊtskɜːts/
      - *n.* 市郊，郊区（outskirt的复数形式）
    * - **outhouse**
      - /ˈaʊthaʊs/
      - *n.* 屋外厕所；附属建筑物；外屋
    * - **tap water**
      - n/a
      - *n.* 自来水
    * - **endure hardship**
      - n/a
      - *n.* 忍受困难
    * - **unfazed**
      - /ʌnˈfeɪzd/
      - *adj.* 不苦恼的
    * - **contagion**
      - /kənˈteɪdʒən/
      - *n.* 传染病；传播; 蔓延; 扩散
    * - **asylum**
      - /əˈsaɪləm/
      - *n.* 政治避难，政治庇护；<旧>精神病院
    * - **nifty**
      - /ˈnɪfti/
      - *adj.* 俏皮的；漂亮的 *n.* 俏皮话
    * - **ventune off into**
      - N/A
      - 冒险进入
    * - **hush money**
      - [ˈhʌʃ mʌni]
      - *n.* 封嘴钱(用于防止某人透露令人尴尬或有损害的消息);
    * - **mounting tension**
      - [ˈmaʊntɪŋ ˈtenʃn]
      - *n.* 日益增加的紧张氛围
    * - **RSVP**
      - n/a
      - 敬请回复
    * - **A hell of a job/time/...**
      - n/a
      - Very difficult or bad
    * - **intermezzo**
      - /ˌɪntəˈmetsəʊ/
      - *n.* 间奏曲；插曲；幕间剧；芭蕾舞表演atheist
    * - **atheist**
      - /ˈeɪθiɪst/
      - *n.* 无神论者
    * - **Unices**
      - n/a
      - *n.* Plural of Unix
    * - **ASCII**
      - Read as 'ask ee'
      - *n.* America Standard Code for Information Interchange




I have a bridge to sell you（表示相信一个人是非常容易被欺骗）

Used to indicate that one believes someone is especially gullible. A reference to the con man George C. Parker, best known for "selling" property that he did not own, most famously the Brooklyn Bridge.

  If you believe that, I have a bridge in Brooklyn to sell to you

policy stance on US 对美国的zz立场


[It's not all sunshine and roses](https://grammarhow.com/its-not-all-sunshine-and-roses-idiom-meaning/)

表示事情不像表明看上去那么完美，还是有缺陷和不足

The idiom “It’s not all sunshine and roses” is used to convey the idea that a seemingly good or positive situation isn’t entirely so,
and that it has its own drawbacks or negative factors as well.
It can be used to talk about many different seemingly positive situations.


ventune off into

  Here are a few details to keep in mind as you venture off into this brave new world.


倒数第二

  last but one, next to last, penultimate

Floor is yours

  Floor is yours, it means: You have the right to speak now! Say what you want!


be there or be square
go big or go home
talk the talk
walk the walk
forgive and forget
put up or shut up
