# Vocabulary (Markdown)

| Word | Pronunciation | Meaning |
| ---- | ------------- | ------- |
| **amortized** | / əˈmɔːtaɪzd / | *n.*摊销额 *vt.*摊销（amortize的过去分词）|




# The Summer Palace

The Summer Palace is located on the northwest outskirts of Beijing, about 20 kilometers away from the center of the city. It is the best preserved imperial garden in the world, and one of the largest of tis kind still an existance in China today. The Summer Palace is formed mainly of Longevity Hill and Kunming Lake, it occupies a total area of 290 hectares or 716 acres. Longevity Hill covers one quarter of the total area, which is about 70 hectares, while Kunming Lake covers the rest of the three quartes, which is about 220 hectares. Longevity Hill is an extension of the Western Hills, while Kunming Lake used to get the water from the springs of Jade Spring Hill, which lies to its west. Kunming Lake now gets water from **meune** **reservior** northwest of Beijing, 102km or 63 miles away. The peak of the western hills and the **pagoda** on Jade Sprint Hill can be seen in the distance, this is the typical method in garden building, known as borrowing the scenery from a distance, the beautiful former imperial garden is set off by a multitude of highly decorative buildings halls, pavilions, bridges, towers, islands, and courtyards. These structures give the visitors to the Summer Palace a feeling of perfection, **magnificence** and harmony, which is created by this splendid layout. The Summer Palace is very famous in the world not only because it is an **ingenious** combination of man made architecture with the **scenic** beauty of nature, but also it is an architectural masterpiece and treasure of the traditional art of Chinese gardening. The Summer Palace harmoniously combines artificial and natural attractions into a **picturesque** landscape one the history the Summer Palace, the Summer Palace has a history of over 800 years, which goes back to the Liao and Jin dynasties. It was first built at the begining of the 12-th century in 1153, when the Jin dynasty made Beijing in central capital, at that time Beijing was called YenJing. They started to build a temporary palace on the present site of the Summer Palace, where the hill was called Golden Hill. (03:22)